Now the last pillar I want to explore here,
is related to Permissions, and Permission issues.
Because, even though we haven't done it
thus far in this course,
you can control which kind of permissions
a Workflow has, and for example,
whether, a Workflow is able to interact
with the issues of a Repository,
or just with the code,
or with something totally different.
And, right now in this course,
we always gave all our workflows full permissions
but that is not something you have to do.
And I got this second Workflow here,
to show you an example,
For setting more restrictive permissions
than you have,
by default.
This Workflow here,
this second example of Workflow,
does in the end, one simple thing.
It also is executed
whenever a new issue is opened.
And then, we check the title of that issue,
here in this if statement,
which also is
a place where we can look
at user generated content
in a secure way,
without executing potentially injected code.
And we simply check
if the title of the issue contains the word 'bug'.
And if that's the case,
we use the curl command
to send a postage TDP request
to the GitHub API,
and there to a path,
which is constructed dynamically
by also injecting the name of the Repository
to which this Workflow belongs,
And then also the number of the issue
and we add a new label,
to the issue.
To be precise, we add the bug label.
Now, I'll get back to this GitHub token thing
in just a second.
In order to see this Workflow in action,
First, I'll go back to my Repository here,
to my GitHub Repository,
and there, if I open a new issue
where I say a new...
book, for example,
You will see that once this is submitted,
again, both Workflows will be triggered.
But now the Permission example Workflow
will actually assign a new bug label to that
newly created issue.
So we can wait for this to finish.
And if we now go back to issues,
we see that now there,
we got this bug label,
and that was added by this Workflow.
So, that's what it does.
Now, this Workflow that adds the bug label
interacts with the GitHub API.
And to be precise, it talks to the issues API
to edit the labels...
of an issue.
That's what it does.
Now, at the moment,
by default, this Workflow
could be doing all kinds of things though
because we're not saying anything
about the Permissions of that Workflow,
or of the jobs in this Workflow.
But you can be more restrictive,
because this Workflow really only needs permission
to interact with issues,
but it does not need permission to interact
with poll requests
or change any actions,
or even use the code of the Repository.
That's all not needed because we're only interested
in the issue that was created here.
And GitHub Actions makes controlling Permissions
for jobs quite easy and straightforward.
Because you can add the special permissions key to a job,
to control the permissions for various kinds of actions
or areas a Workflow could be acting on.
And in our case, it sounds like the issues area
is the important one.
So, therefore,
here, we can go to our job,
to this assigned label job,
because permissions are managed on job level,
to be precise,
you can also add them here,
on Workflow level,
so that they apply to all jobs,
but you either have to do it here
or for a single job.
These are the two areas where you can set permissions.
And then we could set this to read-all
or to even write-all,
if this job really needed permission to interact
with all these areas I just showed you.
So if this job needed access to issues
and the actions,
and the contents,
the code of the Repository,
and all these things,
if our Workflow needed to be able to read
or even change all these things,
you could set permissions to read-all
or write-all.
But typically that's not the case.
And here we could instead add the issues key,
nested below permissions,
and then set this to...
write,
because we definitely need write access here as well.
Now with this permission added,
this Workflow should be able
to successfully edit this issue,
which it does with this post request,
but it, for example,
would not be able
to explore the code of the Repository
or manipulate the actions added
to this Repository,
or do anything like that.
So if I saved this,
I can create a new commit,
changed permissions,
and push this.
And that's achieved with this setting
because if you don't set permissions at all,
then by default,
and I'll show you how to change that default
in a couple of minutes,
but by default, this Workflow
with all its jobs is able to do anything.
It basically has full permissions
or almost full permissions.
As soon as you start adding this permissions key though,
and you set at least one permission,
this means that only what you are setting is granted
and all our permissions are not granted
by default.
So now the default changes
as soon as you start adding permissions.
If you add only the issues permission here,
and set it to read or write,
does not matter,
then all other permissions are not granted.
That's how that works.
So now if I go back here,
I can create a new issue
and name it yet another bug.
And if I do that my Workflows
should of course, start running again.
And the permissions example Workflow
should still finish successfully here,
because all it does is assign a label.
And indeed did.
It added this bug label here.
So regarding the result, nothing changed
but we could argue that the Workflow is now more secure
because we restricted permissions.
And why does this matter?
Well, for example, if you would be vulnerable
to script injection,
those scripts would not be able to do things
that are not allowed by Permissions.
So you have some additional layer of protection,
even though you should of course, try to defend
against Script Injection in the first place.
But even if you don't worry about Script Injection
you also make sure that any actions,
you are using are not doing things
you don't want them to do.
So even if you haven't analyzed all these actions deeply,
which you should, if you don't trust the authors
but if you haven't done that
at least you know what they can theoretically do.
And if you have a job that has these permissions,
then an action wouldn't be able
to suddenly start reading your code
or do anything else.
So adding Permissions does not protect you
against all possible problems,
but it is an additional layer
you should consider implementing.